Let's talk about routing.
Routing is fundamental
to any web application.
And Oak has pre built router middleware
that allows you to handle different
routes, parameters, queries, all of the
things that we're doing manually before.
And it's basically doing a lot of the
string parsing and regular expression and
pattern matching in stuff that you
otherwise have to do yourself.
And so let's look at how to use it.
So up here at the top,
what wanna do is pull in
the router from okay, so let's do that.
Let's see this a router.
You want to enable import IntelliSense for
Deno land, Deno land, yes.
Just so you can see what that does.
What it should do, is It doesn't but
it will actually go out to the web and
give you IntelliSense on modules
that you can import remotely.
Although support for
that seems to be a little sketchy.
All right anyway, we pulled in router,
so we wanna use that.
So let's create a new router instance.
Which we did and now what we wanna do is
handle all these requests with our router.
So let's do router.get and
then it wants to know what path so
this is the route path.
So this is our route router, okay.
This is our index page
we're going to return and
then what we get here is
the context object again.
But we don't get the next, right, next
is gonna be called for us automatically.
So what we're going to do here is just
a ctx, but the API is the same, right?
So this is we'll just
call this index page and
then let's do the same thing for,
let's make a user's page speed.
Just like Express we have like /users.
Again, let's just return oops, nope,
that's not what we want but that is ctx.
I need to come here.
Let's do.
Sorry, I can't use the Escape key.
Response body equals users page and
then let's do a route with a parameter.
So we'll do router.get/users/name and
then again with our context object and
then we can just return, equals.
Let's just echo back, the name.
How do we get the name,
ctx context.params.
Again, if you didn't know what can I do
with the context, you can just sort of
got it and get the IntelliSense and
find params that's probably it.
And then what can we do with params to
context.params.what.name, maybe
I don't know.
Let's try this and see if it works on
the task, the task manager popped up,
even though I didn't ask for it.
Windows is trying to tell me something.
All right, so we no longer need to
have the app handle the requests.
So instead, what we wanna do is have the
app use the router sorry, app use router.
And then specifically,
we need to tell it these
are the different routes and
then we also want to tell it
to use this allowed methods.
Which allows us to handle all the methods,
http methods that we might get,
besides just to get okay.
So now we're handling all
these different routes and
we're gonna respond differently
based on which one we're at.
And we're even gonna handle a route
perimeter that we jumped through quite
a bit of hoops before, but
hopes a router makes this quite simple.
So let's make sure we're
still running here,
open an unsupported media type was
attempted to be imported as a module.
I don't think that's right,
let's try this again.
Look at this, somehow this got pulled in.
Let's take this out,
we don't want this, there we go.
All right, so here's our application
running on port 3000 refresh index page.
So if we go to users should say
Users page and if we pass a name,
it should just echo back the name and
it does.
All right, so, that the router
from oak makes it quite simple to
do complex routing,
than your application would likely have.
Routing is a fundamental
part of any web application.
All right, so we implemented that,
added the users route.
Now, one of the things here, though,
that's going to be a problem
is that you can imagine if this
application was at any size that we would
have dozens of routes maybe hundreds
of routes, who knows, right?
And so this app file could be
extremely monolithic and so
what we don't want to do is just put all
of our application code in the app file.
Because what if here, we were making some
sort of a database call to get users and
then here we were doing something else.
And then we write all of this code to be
in the app page, and we don't want that.
So really what we wanna do is
mimic what Express does and
what Express does is it says,
okay, well we're gonna put
all of our routes in a folder
called routes, all right.
So we need to create files in here and
each file will handle a specific route.
So for instance, in Express,
one file handles all the index routes,
doesn't matter if it's a get post,
put what have you.
Doesn't matter if there's parameters,
one file handles all that for users,
same thing.
So we wanNA create that kind of structure.
So I'm going to create this file and
I'm just going to call it index router.ts.
And now what I need to do is I need to be
able to reference that router object so
that I can add the route here in this
file and handle all the code here.
Now, there's no prescribed
way to do this So
what I'm gonnado here is just sort of
my opinion on how to structure this.
But what we can do here is we can
export because we have this syntax this
like you'll see,
keep seeing this use syntax right here.
So I wanna have a syntax
that's similar to this but
what we can do here is we can say, export.
We could say export default.
Export actually just export function use,
and
then we wanna pass in a path string and
we wanna pass in,
maybe we want to pass in the router, okay?
Now in order to actually
use the router object,
we have to import it and this is where
we run into this problem where we're
gonna have URL imports all over
the place and we don't want that.
So now's a really good time for
us to create that depths
file that we talked about.
So let's do a new file, call it
depth.ts and let's paste this in and
then remember,
we have to export this stuff back out.
So let's export application and router.
Okay, and actually here,
let's do let's export a default function,
And then at the top of this,
what I wanna do is import
router from the depths file
which we can access like this.
Right now all of our nasty URLs
are hidden away out of sight.
But we need to import application and
application and
router from that file as well.
Forgot na From our depths.ts, okay.
And it's in the same folder here, so
we don't need this, just do this.
Okay, so here we've got this function and
inside of that,
what we wanna do is just say this router
object which we've passed in
needs to be of type router.
We'll just say router dot oops,
I got an uppercase, let me change this,
router.get, right.
And then we just wanna get the path and
then we wanna do something
just like we're doing before.
We just moving this code in
what we're doing before saying
ctx.response.body equals index pag, okay.
Now we need to take out our router here.
So let's get rid of this.
So we don't need this anymore,
instead we're gonna pull in
our router file, so import.
So we wanted to do routes,
there we go, Index router.ts, okay.
And then here what we can do is
just tell our index router we
got a default remember we talked
about that I messed it up.
So he pulled us out,
we should be able to get it.
Like this, use, there it is and
then we're gonna pass in the path, okay?
And we're gonna pass in the context,
the router object sees me.
Okay, so just like that we've moved the
logic for our index router into another
file and let's just do the same thing for
our users routes.
Let's just do user's router.
And then we can just copy over
basically everything from
the index route into our users router but
in this case,
what we wanna do is,
we wanna have two routes.
One is responding to the params but for
now we'll just handle the main route and
let's just change this to users page,
okay.
And then now we can copy
the same line up here,
just move this down,
just rename it to Users router.
Okay, excellent.
Let's get rid of this because
we're not using router and
now it's just, users router.use, users and
then we're passing in that router object.
Okay, so as just like this, you can see
where we're sort of just moving through
here and handling paths and
moving things into routers and
structuring our application, the way
an application might be structured.
Now, I think actually the right way
to do this in a perfect world is to
actually create a new router
in each one of these files.
So, in a perfect world, we'd say, const
router equals new router like this and
then we would say router.get and
we would handle all of this
stuff here in this file.
But the problem is as of the time of this
writing oak does not handle sub routers
like that,
it will only take that one router.
And so we're sort of stuck to this syntax
of kind of mimicking that by wrapping
everything in a use function.
Okay, are we still running over here?
File change detected we are.
So now do we have something similar?
Let's see here.
Let's go back Index page.
Users page All right, so
our router is working very nicely.
All right, so we are slowly approximating
something that looks like we need it to.